Title: Cultural differences
Date: 2011-03-15 22:44
Tags: culture, rant
Slug: cultural-differences

I'm on my way back from a small trip to Lisbon, where i attended part of
a Portuguese Google Technology Users Group, hosted by Google/Paul
Kinlan, presenting Google Chrome Webstore features. The whole event
looked yummi.

Since i'm from Porto, which is 320km/3h (slow/cheaper) train away from
Lisbon and $things have been rough, i wasn't intending on showing
up, but since i got an e-mail from the organization (or someone
close) to drop by and present something on the developers panel (which
i'm thankful for), i decided to code something up related to the event,
minimally interesting,while in a way representing our Northern developer
community.

So, i started coding a Google Chrome, extension to chart browser process
resources in realtime, since last wednesday, using Dojo 1.6 features and
Chrome's experimental API's, which ended up being not that bad.

The event was supposed to start around 7pm, so i took a train and
arrived at about 6.30pm. The last train back home was at 9.30pm and
since i couldn't afford to stay over, i've had asked before and live at
the event today, to bunk at someone's couch, with no replies, so i had
to take the train back.

Most people started showing up at 7.15/7.30pm and Paul Kinlan's talk at
about 8pm, when most of the people were at the venue, so i was only able
to attend about 40m of Paul's talk, which was great.

So, basically, i spent most of my last savings and 6h on traveling,
about 6/8h working on the tech demo, because people weren't kind enough
to let me drop on their couch for one night.

I'm not saying that people are forced to do anything. Probably there
wasn't even that possibility. And it wasn't a total loss, i learned a
few stuff on the way, i always do, tech and socially/community wise.

Now let me tell you another story. Last year i competed at NodeKO, for
which i used Dojo as a UI toolkit and was invited by a Sitepen's
management team, Dylan, to attend a miniconf in London, talk about the
project and Dojo's use in it. Cash wasn't also abundant at the time, but
i really wanted to be there, get to know London, the developer
community, have a nice time and learn new stuff.

Since Dylan invited me to bunk at his bunker, you know, because i was
low on resources and spent a lot of meaningful cash on the trip, i
bought the plane tickets, took off and had a great time.

Other than that, i've even had invitations to bunk at Internet/freenode
people's bunker a few month's to code on projects, in the Silicon
forking Valley.

I've had guests from New York at my (old) place, which where
acquaintaces of acquaintaces of freelance partners of mine over the net,
 that i hardly knew but trusted the referrals, which i took in my own
home and toured them around the region a couple of full days.

It pisses me off, not feeling any kind of support in my own forking
country.

At a tech level, most of the hacker communities, at least around coding
languages (Java, Python, etc) are dead. Most people don't give a damn.

Maybe i'm overreacting, or just acting like a kid or a wave short of a
ship wreck but all i feel like saying to people around here is "take
your nose off your own butt and get real".

Rant over.
